#summary Introduction to using JNCryptor
#labels Featured

==Overview==

JNCryptor is an easy-to-use library for encrypting data with AES. It was ported to Java from the [https://github.com/rnapier/RNCryptor RNCryptor] library for iOS.

== Getting JNCryptor ==

You can download binaries, documentation and source from the [http://code.google.com/p/jncryptor/downloads downloads page].  Maven users can copy the following snippet to retrieve the artifacts from Maven Central:

{{{
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.cryptonode.jncryptor</groupId>
    <artifactId>jncryptor</artifactId>
    <version>0.3</version>
</dependency>
}}}

The [http://jncryptor.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/javadoc/index.html JNCryptor Javadocs] can also be browsed online.

== Using JNCryptor ==

A quick example is shown below:

<code language="java">
JNCryptor cryptor = JNCryptorFactory.getCryptor();
byte[] plaintext = "Hello, World!".getBytes();
String password = "secretsquirrel";

try {
  byte[] ciphertext = cryptor.encryptData(plaintext, password.toCharArray());
} catch (CryptorException e) {
  // Something went wrong
  e.printStackTrace();
}</code>


===Data Format==

A proprietary data format is used that stores the IV, salt values (if applicable), ciphertext and HMAC value in a compact fashion. Methods are offered to encrypt data based on either an existing key, or a password. In the latter case, a key is derived from the password using a key derivation function, with 10,000 iterations and a salt value.

|| *Item* || *Byte length* || *Description* ||
|| Version || 1 || Data format version. Always `0x02`. ||
|| Options || 1 || Options. `0x01` indicates a password was used. ||
|| Encryption Salt || 8 || Salt value used to derive the encryption key. Only present if a password was used. ||
|| HMAC Salt || 8 || Salt value used to derive the HMAC key. Only present if a password was used. ||
|| IV || 16 || Random IV  ||
|| Ciphertext || _n_ x 16 || Encrypted with 256-bit AES, CBC-mode with PKCS #5 padding. ||
|| HMAC || 32 || HMAC calculated with SHA-256.  ||

Keys are derived from the password and the appropriate salt value using the PBKDF2 function with SHA1. A separate key is generated for encrypting the plaintext and computing the HMAC.

===History===

The data format supported by this library is v2. Both v1 and v0 have a [http://robnapier.net/blog/rncryptor-hmac-vulnerability-827 significant security flaw] whereby only the ciphertext was included in the HMAC value. There are no plans to support v1 or v0.